William F. Gilreath
345 Commercial Street NE
Salem, Oregon 97301
(503)-602-7495

SUMMARY

I am a multifaceted software engineer, web developer, and computer scientist. I love working with software especially developing, testing, writing, and analyzing code. In my spare time, I write both code, technical papers, and narrative prose.

EXPERIENCE

Web Content Editor/Writer, Hummingbird Innovations — Happy Valley, OR
September 2019-currently

∙ Research material from various online sources articles, blogs, books, research papers.
∙ Author content in Wordpress template and edit content, template for best quality.
∙ Resolve any content issues or web issues in accessing and viewing content.

Unemployed/Free Agent — Salem, OR 
July 2019-September 2019

I'm a software engineer, so while a free agent I worked on some projects. Three open-source projects I have created on my own are: 

∙ WEJAC - simpler Java compiler. https://wgilreath.github.io/WEJAC/  
∙ DBXShell - DropBox shell to manage DropBox storage. https://wgilreath.github.io/DBXShell/ 
∙ ZeptoN - ZepC transcompiler in Java for ZeptoN language. https://github.com/wgilreath/ZeptoN

Technical Contributor/Review Editor, Packt Publishing, Ltd. — Mumbai, India (remote work) 
January 2019-July 2019

∙ Technical Contributor "Java Data Structures and Algorithms" lesson technical assessment questions.
∙ Technical Contributor "Java Fundamentals" pre- and post-assessment technical assessment questions.
∙ Technical Contributor "Java Fundamentals" lesson 1 and 2 follow-up technical assessment questions.
∙ Review Editor "Professional Javascript" checking, evaluation, and testing of technical content and source code.

Program Member/Volunteer, Union Gospel Mission — Salem, OR
September 2015-September 2018

I became homeless thus lived at the Union Gospel Mission, in a program to get back on my feet. I graduated from this program, so am now an active job seeker. I volunteered in computer support:

∙ Graduate of the New Life Fellowship (NLF) program to recover from homelessness.
∙ Computer support for front-desk, computer laboratory, staff computers.
∙ Developed web app to e-mail evaluations from form to staff.
∙ Created documents, spreadsheets used by staff in Microsoft Office.

Freelance Software Developer — Picayune, MS
November 2006-May 2014
	
I was my mother's caregiver during her declining years until her death. On the side, I worked software gigs, and odd programming jobs through word of mouth, sologig, etc.

∙ Worked on small software projects, gig to gig; unemployed between gigs.
∙ Porting legacy code to more modern languages such as FORTRAN, Pascal to Java, C#.
∙ Implementing custom programs, tools, and utilities for the macOS, Windows, Linux.

Software/Database Engineer, Planning Systems, Inc. — Stennis Space Center, MS
June 2006-November 2006

∙ Administration of information on MySQL database of sensor/buoy data on Linux server system.
∙ Developed Java application library for database management utilizing JDBC database driver.
∙ Wrote data population application with Java and shell scripts to import and export raw data from the database system.
∙ Assisted in improvement and verification of documentation presented on the intranet used by other scientists and software developers.
∙ Consulted in the development of a XML-based message software service project in Java.

Independent Technical Author, Kluwer/Springer-Verlag — Picayune, MS
March 2002-February 2003

∙ Lead author on computer architecture book, with Dr. Phillip A. Laplante, "Computer Architecture: A Minimalist Perspective," published March 2003.
∙ Researched the technical material relating to computer architecture and engineering for the text.
∙ Created tables, diagrams, and visual aids for book chapters illustrating concepts and principles relating to computer architecture.
∙ Developed chapter questions and exercises as means to assess level of understanding and comprehension of material.
∙ Created example programs in C programming language, assembly language to demonstrate computer architecture principles.

Java Consultant/Developer, J.R. Simplot Company — Boise, ID
February 2002-June 2002

∙ Mentored software engineers by hands-on training with Java and the object-oriented paradigm.
∙ Rewrote and translated existing code to Java for several in house applications.
∙ Developed in conjunction with other developers a Java applet for interactive data visualization.
∙ Authored reference documentation for training and education with Java and the object-oriented paradigm using UML.

Firmware/Software Developer, Hewlett Packard/Adecco Technical — Boise, ID
March 2001-February 2002

∙ Install/webmaster of Apache Tomcat web server usage and development of internal web apps, tools, and utilities.
∙ Build printer firmware and debug failed builds on a distributed build system using C/C++.
∙ Investigate and assist in debugging scripts, utilities, and tools in C/C++, UNIX shell, Perl script, and JavaScript.
∙ Worked and developed embedded C source as part of printer firmware development kit.
∙ Development of HTML forms, web pages, CGI scripts, JavaScript libraries for web apps and tools.
∙ Maintenance, testing of software document and development tools in C/C++ in UNIX.
∙ Provided support for libraries and scripts for distributed build system.

Software Engineer, Micron Technology — Boise, ID
June 1999-November 2000

∙ Developer for manufacturing data communication system and internal middleware library using TCP/IP and UDP protocols in C++ for Unix/Windows.
∙ Developed and assisted in database development on Oracle, Sybase in PL/SQL and Transact SQL.
∙ Code maintenance, revision and support for existing legacy software in C/C++ on Windows, UNIX systems.
∙ Assisted in assessing and planning requirements for application programming interfaces relating to SOAP and XML based software.
∙ Developed regression test suites for software applications and utilities in C++ using distributed middleware messaging.
∙ Instructor for introductory training class for XML and application library in C++. 

Lead Research Assistant, Computer Science Dept, Mississippi State — Starkville, MS
July 1996-December 1996

∙ Leader for research project with professor in machine learning project for military application.
∙ Developed, tested, and maintained C/C++ code for machine learning app.
∙ Modified source code for Improvements in runtime performance, memory usage, and removal leaks.
∙ Ported source code from SunOS/Unix engineering workstation to Linux on PC.
∙ Coordinate research efforts with other researchers and reported to professor. 

Engineer Intern/Coop Student, South Mississippi Electric Power Association — Purvis MS
August 1991-May 1994

∙ Investigated alternative equipment, hardware for new replacement systems in plant equipment.
∙ Tested new work order/equipment schedule and tracking system.
∙ Edited user manual explaining use of new work order/equipment schedule system in Oracle.
∙ Trained and assisted users of new UNIX-based distributed control system.

EDUCATION

Mississippi State University, Starkville, MS — Bachelor’s of Computer Science, 1998.

External Links

LinkedIn:  	https://www.linkedin.com/in/wfgilreath/
GitHub:    	https://github.com/wgilreath
Home: 		https://wgilreath.github.io/WillHome.html

PUBLICATIONS

∙ "The Problem with Creating Generic Arrays," Java Code Geeks, October 2019. 
https://www.javacodegeeks.com/the-problem-with-creating-generic-arrays.html

∙ "The Two Couriers Problem A Problem of Division by Zero in Transmathematics," Transmathematica Journal, June 2019. 
https://transmathematica.org/index.php/journal/article/view/7

∙ "Instruction Set Completeness Theorem:  Concept, Relevance, Proof, and Example for Processor Architecture,” General Science Journal, March 2017. 
https://www.gsjournal.net/Science-Journals/Research%20Papers-Miscellaneous/Download/6855
